§ 1. Time of appointing electors
The electors of President and Vice President shall be appointed, in each State, on election day, in accordance with the laws of the State enacted prior to election day.

[§ 2. Repealed. Pub. L. 117–328, div. P, title I, § 102(a), Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 5233]

§ 3. Number of electors
The number of electors shall be equal to the number of Senators and Representatives to which the several States are by law entitled at the time when the President and Vice President to be chosen come into office; except, that where no apportionment of Representatives has been made after any enumeration, at the time of choosing electors, the number of electors shall be according to the then existing apportionment of Senators and Representatives.

§ 4. Vacancies in electoral college
Each State may, by law enacted prior to election day, provide for the filling of any vacancies which may occur in its college of electors when such college meets to give its electoral vote.

§ 5. Certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors(a) In General.—(1) Certification.—Not later than the date that is 6 days before the time fixed for the meeting of the electors, the executive of each State shall issue a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors, under and in pursuance of the laws of such State providing for such appointment and ascertainment enacted prior to election day.

(2) Form of certificate.—Each certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors shall—(A) set forth the names of the electors appointed and the canvass or other determination under the laws of such State of the number of votes given or cast for each person for whose appointment any and all votes have been given or cast;

(B) bear the seal of the State; and

(C) contain at least one security feature, as determined by the State, for purposes of verifying the authenticity of such certificate.

(b) Transmission.—It shall be the duty of the executive of each State—(1) to transmit to the Archivist of the United States, immediately after the issuance of a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors and by the most expeditious method available, such certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors; and

(2) to transmit to the electors of such State, on or before the day on which the electors are required to meet under section 7, six duplicate-originals of the same certificate.

(c) Treatment of Certificate as Conclusive.—For purposes of section 15:(1) In general.—(A) Certificate issued by executive.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors issued pursuant to subsection (a)(1) shall be treated as conclusive in Congress with respect to the determination of electors appointed by the State.

(B) Certificates issued pursuant to court orders.—Any certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors required to be issued or revised by any State or Federal judicial relief granted prior to the date of the meeting of electors shall replace and supersede any other certificates submitted pursuant to this section.

(2) Determination of federal questions.—The determination of Federal courts on questions arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States with respect to a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors shall be conclusive in Congress.

(d) Venue and Expedited Procedure.—(1) In general.—Any action brought by an aggrieved candidate for President or Vice President that arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States with respect to the issuance of the certification required under section (a)(1), or the transmission of such certification as required under subsection (b), shall be subject to the following rules:(A) Venue.—The venue for such action shall be the Federal district court of the Federal district in which the State capital is located.

(B) 3-judge panel.—Such action shall be heard by a district court of three judges, convened pursuant to section 2284 of title 28, United States Code, except that—(i) the court shall be comprised of two judges of the circuit court of appeals in which the district court lies and one judge of the district court in which the action is brought; and

(ii) section 2284(b)(2) of such title shall not apply.

(C) Expedited procedure.—It shall be the duty of the court to advance on the docket and to expedite to the greatest possible extent the disposition of the action, consistent with all other relevant deadlines established by this chapter and the laws of the United States.

(D) Appeals.—Notwithstanding section 1253 of title 28, United States Code, the final judgment of the panel convened under subparagraph (B) may be reviewed directly by the Supreme Court, by writ of certiorari granted upon petition of any party to the case, on an expedited basis, so that a final order of the court on remand of the Supreme Court may occur on or before the day before the time fixed for the meeting of electors.

(2) Rule of construction.—This subsection—(A) shall be construed solely to establish venue and expedited procedures in any action brought by an aggrieved candidate for President or Vice President as specified in this subsection that arises under the Constitution or laws of the United States; and

(B) shall not be construed to preempt or displace any existing State or Federal cause of action.

§ 6. Duties of Archivist
The certificates of ascertainment of appointment of electors received by the Archivist of the United States under section 5 shall—(1) be preserved for one year;

(2) be a part of the public records of such office; and

(3) be open to public inspection.

§ 7. Meeting and vote of electors
The electors of President and Vice President of each State shall meet and give their votes on the first Tuesday after the second Wednesday in December next following their appointment at such place in each State in accordance with the laws of the State enacted prior to election day.

§ 8. Manner of voting
The electors shall vote for President and Vice President, respectively, in the manner directed by the Constitution.

§ 9. Certificates of votes for President and Vice President
The electors shall make and sign six certificates of all the votes given by them, each of which certificates shall contain two distinct lists, one of the votes for President and the other of the votes for Vice President, and shall annex to each of the certificates of votes one of the certificates of ascertainment of appointment of electors which shall have been furnished to them by direction of the executive of the State.

§ 10. Sealing and endorsing certificates
The electors shall seal up the certificates of votes so made by them, together with the annexed certificates of ascertainment of appointment of electors, and certify upon each that the lists of all the votes of such State given for President, and of all the votes given for Vice President, are contained therein.

§ 11. Transmission of certificates by electors
The electors shall immediately transmit at the same time and by the most expeditious method available the certificates of votes so made by them, together with the annexed certificates of ascertainment of appointment of electors, as follows:(1) One set shall be sent to the President of the Senate at the seat of government.

(2) Two sets shall be sent to the chief election officer of the State, one of which shall be held subject to the order of the President of the Senate, the other to be preserved by such official for one year and shall be a part of the public records of such office and shall be open to public inspection.

(3) Two sets shall be sent to the Archivist of the United States at the seat of government, one of which shall be held subject to the order of the President of the Senate and the other of which shall be preserved by the Archivist of the United States for one year and shall be a part of the public records of such office and shall be open to public inspection.

(4) One set shall be sent to the judge of the district in which the electors shall have assembled.

§ 12. Failure of certificates of electors to reach President of the Senate or Archivist of the United States; demand on State for certificate
When, after the meeting of the electors shall have been held, no certificate of vote mentioned in sections 9 and 11 of this title from any State shall have been received by the President of the Senate or by the Archivist of the United States by the fourth Wednesday in December, the President of the Senate or, if the President of the Senate be absent from the seat of government, the Archivist of the United States shall request, by the most expeditious method available, the chief election officer of the State to send up the certificate lodged with such officer by the electors of such State; and it shall be the duty of such chief election officer of the State upon receipt of such request immediately to transmit same by the most expeditious method available to the President of the Senate at the seat of government.

§ 13. Same; demand on district judge for certificate
When, after the meeting of the electors shall have been held, no certificates of votes from any State shall have been received at the seat of government on the fourth Wednesday in December, the President of the Senate or, if the President of the Senate be absent from the seat of government, the Archivist of the United States shall send a special messenger to the district judge in whose custody one certificate of votes from that State has been lodged, and such judge shall forthwith transmit that certificate by the hand of such messenger to the seat of government.

[§ 14. Repealed. Pub. L. 117–328, div. P, title I, § 108(c)(1), Dec. 29, 2022, 136 Stat. 5237]

§ 15. Counting electoral votes in Congress(a) In General.—Congress shall be in session on the sixth day of January succeeding every meeting of the electors. The Senate and House of Representatives shall meet in the Hall of the House of Representatives at the hour of 1 o’clock in the afternoon on that day, and the President of the Senate shall be their presiding officer.

(b) Powers of the President of Senate.—(1) Ministerial in nature.—Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the role of the President of the Senate while presiding over the joint session shall be limited to performing solely ministerial duties.

(2) Powers explicitly denied.—The President of the Senate shall have no power to solely determine, accept, reject, or otherwise adjudicate or resolve disputes over the proper certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors, the validity of electors, or the votes of electors.

(c) Appointment of Tellers.—At the joint session of the Senate and House of Representatives described in subsection (a), there shall be present two tellers previously appointed on the part of the Senate and two tellers previously appointed on the part of the House of Representatives by the presiding officers of the respective chambers.

(d) Procedure at Joint Session Generally.—(1) In general.—The President of the Senate shall—(A) open the certificates and papers purporting to be certificates of the votes of electors appointed pursuant to a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors issued pursuant to section 5, in the alphabetical order of the States, beginning with the letter A; and

(B) upon opening any certificate, hand the certificate and any accompanying papers to the tellers, who shall read the same in the presence and hearing of the two Houses.

(2) Action on certificate.—(A) In general.—Upon the reading of each certificate or paper, the President of the Senate shall call for objections, if any.

(B) Requirements for objections or questions.—(i) Objections.—No objection or other question arising in the matter shall be in order unless the objection or question—(I) is made in writing;

(II) is signed by at least one-fifth of the Senators duly chosen and sworn and one-fifth of the Members of the House of Representatives duly chosen and sworn; and

(III) in the case of an objection, states clearly and concisely, without argument, one of the grounds listed under clause (ii).

(ii) Grounds for objections.—The only grounds for objections shall be as follows:(I) The electors of the State were not lawfully certified under a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors according to section 5(a)(1).

(II) The vote of one or more electors has not been regularly given.

(C) Consideration of objections and questions.—(i) In general.—When all objections so made to any vote or paper from a State, or other question arising in the matter, shall have been received and read, the Senate shall thereupon withdraw, and such objections and questions shall be submitted to the Senate for its decision; and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall, in like manner, submit such objections and questions to the House of Representatives for its decision.

(ii) Determination.—No objection or any other question arising in the matter may be sustained unless such objection or question is sustained by separate concurring votes of each House.

(D) Reconvening.—When the two Houses have voted, they shall immediately again meet, and the presiding officer shall then announce the decision of the questions submitted. No vote or paper from any other State shall be acted upon until the objections previously made to any vote or paper from any State, and other questions arising in the matter, shall have been finally disposed of.

(e) Rules for Tabulating Votes.—(1) Counting of votes.—(A) In general.—Except as provided in subparagraph (B)—(i) only the votes of electors who have been appointed under a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors issued pursuant to section 5, or who have legally been appointed to fill a vacancy of any such elector pursuant to section 4, may be counted; and

(ii) no vote of an elector described in clause (i) which has been regularly given shall be rejected.

(B) Exception.—The vote of an elector who has been appointed under a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors issued pursuant to section 5 shall not be counted if—(i) there is an objection which meets the requirements of subsection (d)(2)(B)(i); and

(ii) each House affirmatively sustains the objection as valid.

(2) Determination of majority.—If the number of electors lawfully appointed by any State pursuant to a certificate of ascertainment of appointment of electors that is issued under section 5 is fewer than the number of electors to which the State is entitled under section 3, or if an objection the grounds for which are described in subsection (d)(2)(B)(ii)(I) has been sustained, the total number of electors appointed for the purpose of determining a majority of the whole number of electors appointed as required by the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution shall be reduced by the number of electors whom the State has failed to appoint or as to whom the objection was sustained.

(3) List of votes by tellers; declaration of winner.—The tellers shall make a list of the votes as they shall appear from the said certificates; and the votes having been ascertained and counted according to the rules in this subchapter provided, the result of the same shall be delivered to the President of the Senate, who shall thereupon announce the state of the vote, which announcement shall be deemed a sufficient declaration of the persons, if any, elected President and Vice President of the United States, and, together with a list of the votes, be entered on the Journals of the two Houses.

§ 16. Same; seats for officers and Members of two Houses in joint session
At such joint session of the two Houses seats shall be provided as follows: For the President of the Senate, the Speaker’s chair; for the Speaker, immediately upon his left; the Senators, in the body of the Hall upon the right of the presiding officer; for the Representatives, in the body of the Hall not provided for the Senators; for the tellers, Secretary of the Senate, and Clerk of the House of Representatives, at the Clerk’s desk; for the other officers of the two Houses, in front of the Clerk’s desk and upon each side of the Speaker’s platform. Such joint session shall not be dissolved until the count of electoral votes shall be completed and the result declared; and no recess shall be taken unless a question shall have arisen in regard to counting any such votes, or otherwise under this subchapter, in which case it shall be competent for either House, acting separately, in the manner hereinbefore provided, to direct a recess of such House not beyond the next calendar day, Sunday excepted, at the hour of 10 o’clock in the forenoon. But if the counting of the electoral votes and the declaration of the result shall not have been completed before the fifth calendar day next after such first session of the two Houses, no further or other recess shall be taken by either House.

§ 17. Same; limit of debate in each House
When the two Houses separate to decide upon an objection pursuant to section 15(d)(2)(C)(i) that may have been made to the counting of any electoral vote or votes from any State, or other question arising in the matter—(1) all such objections and questions permitted with respect to such State shall be considered at such time;

(2) each Senator and Representative may speak to such objections or questions for up to five minutes, and not more than once;

(3) the total time for debate for all such objections and questions with respect to such State shall not exceed two hours in each House, equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and Minority Leader, or their respective designees; and

(4) at the close of such debate, it shall be the duty of the presiding officer of each House to put each of the objections and questions to a vote without further debate.

§ 18. Same; parliamentary procedure at joint session
While the two Houses shall be in session as provided in this chapter, the President of the Senate shall have power to preserve order; and no debate shall be allowed and no question shall be put by the presiding officer except to either House on a motion to withdraw under section 15(d)(2)(C)(i).

§ 19. Vacancy in offices of both President and Vice President; officers eligible to act(a)(1) If, by reason of death, resignation, removal from office, inability, or failure to qualify, there is neither a President nor Vice President to discharge the powers and duties of the office of President, then the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall, upon his resignation as Speaker and as Representative in Congress, act as President.

(2) The same rule shall apply in the case of the death, resignation, removal from office, or inability of an individual acting as President under this subsection.

(b) If, at the time when under subsection (a) of this section a Speaker is to begin the discharge of the powers and duties of the office of President, there is no Speaker, or the Speaker fails to qualify as Acting President, then the President pro tempore of the Senate shall, upon his resignation as President pro tempore and as Senator, act as President.

(c) An individual acting as President under subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this section shall continue to act until the expiration of the then current Presidential term, except that—(1) if his discharge of the powers and duties of the office is founded in whole or in part on the failure of both the President-elect and the Vice-President-elect to qualify, then he shall act only until a President or Vice President qualifies; and

(2) if his discharge of the powers and duties of the office is founded in whole or in part on the inability of the President or Vice President, then he shall act only until the removal of the disability of one of such individuals.

(d)(1) If, by reason of death, resignation, removal from office, inability, or failure to qualify, there is no President pro tempore to act as President under subsection (b) of this section, then the officer of the United States who is highest on the following list, and who is not under disability to discharge the powers and duties of the office of President shall act as President: Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Defense, Attorney General, Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Agriculture, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Health and Human Services, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Secretary of Transportation, Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Education, Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Secretary of Homeland Security.

(2) An individual acting as President under this subsection shall continue so to do until the expiration of the then current Presidential term, but not after a qualified and prior-entitled individual is able to act, except that the removal of the disability of an individual higher on the list contained in paragraph (1) of this subsection or the ability to qualify on the part of an individual higher on such list shall not terminate his service.

(3) The taking of the oath of office by an individual specified in the list in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be held to constitute his resignation from the office by virtue of the holding of which he qualifies to act as President.

(e) Subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this section shall apply only to such officers as are eligible to the office of President under the Constitution. Subsection (d) of this section shall apply only to officers appointed, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, prior to the time of the death, resignation, removal from office, inability, or failure to qualify, of the President pro tempore, and only to officers not under impeachment by the House of Representatives at the time the powers and duties of the office of President devolve upon them.

(f) During the period that any individual acts as President under this section, his compensation shall be at the rate then provided by law in the case of the President.

§ 20. Resignation or refusal of office
The only evidence of a refusal to accept, or of a resignation of the office of President or Vice President, shall be an instrument in writing, declaring the same, and subscribed by the person refusing to accept or resigning, as the case may be, and delivered into the office of the Secretary of State.

§ 21. Definitions
As used in this chapter the term—(1) “election day” means the Tuesday next after the first Monday in November, in every fourth year succeeding every election of a President and Vice President held in each State, except, in the case of a State that appoints electors by popular vote, if the State modifies the period of voting, as necessitated by force majeure events that are extraordinary and catastrophic, as provided under laws of the State enacted prior to such day, “election day” shall include the modified period of voting.

(2) “State” includes the District of Columbia.

(3) “executive” means, with respect to any State, the Governor of the State (or, in the case of the District of Columbia, the Mayor of the District of Columbia), except when the laws or constitution of a State in effect as of election day expressly require a different State executive to perform the duties identified under this chapter.

§ 22. Severability
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of a provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this chapter, and the application of the provisions to any person or circumstance, shall not be affected by the holding.

§ 101. Commencement of term of office
The term of four years for which a President and Vice President shall be elected, shall, in all cases, commence on the 20th day of January next succeeding the day on which the votes of the electors have been given.

“SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER EXECUTIVE OFFICE BUILDING.“The Old Executive Office Building located at 17th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, in Washington, District of Columbia, shall be known and designated as the ‘Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building’.

“SEC. 2. REFERENCES.“Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the building referred to in section 1 shall be deemed to be a reference to the ‘Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building’.”

§ 102. Compensation of the President
The President shall receive in full for his services during the term for which he shall have been elected compensation in the aggregate amount of $400,000 a year, to be paid monthly, and in addition an expense allowance of $50,000 to assist in defraying expenses relating to or resulting from the discharge of his official duties. Any unused amount of such expense allowance shall revert to the Treasury pursuant to section 1552 of title 31, United States Code. No amount of such expense allowance shall be included in the gross income of the President. He shall be entitled also to the use of the furniture and other effects belonging to the United States and kept in the Executive Residence at the White House.

“Sec. 2. The Congress declares it to be the purpose of this Act to promote the orderly transfer of the executive power in connection with the expiration of the term of office of a President and the inauguration of a new President. The national interest requires that such transitions in the office of President be accomplished so as to assure continuity in the faithful execution of the laws and in the conduct of the affairs of the Federal Government, both domestic and foreign. Any disruption occasioned by the transfer of the executive power could produce results detrimental to the safety and well-being of the United States and its people. Accordingly, it is the intent of the Congress that appropriate actions be authorized and taken to avoid or minimize any disruption. In addition to the specific provisions contained in this Act directed toward that purpose, it is the intent of the Congress that all officers of the Government so conduct the affairs of the Government for which they exercise responsibility and authority as (1) to be mindful of problems occasioned by transitions in the office of President, (2) to take appropriate lawful steps to avoid or minimize disruptions that might be occasioned by the transfer of the executive power, and (3) otherwise to promote orderly transitions in the office of President.
“Sec. 3. (a) The Administrator of General Services, referred to hereafter in this Act as ‘the Administrator,’ is authorized to provide, upon request, to each apparent successful candidate for the office of President and Vice President (as determined by subsection (c)), and, for up to 60 days after the date of the inauguration of each such candidate, each President and Vice President, for use in connection with the preparations for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice President necessary services and facilities, including the following:“(1) Suitable office space appropriately equipped with furniture, furnishings, office machines and equipment, and office supplies, as determined by the Administrator, after consultation with the apparent successful candidate, or their designee provided for in subsection (e) of this section, at such place or places within the United States as the apparent successful candidate shall designate.

“(2) Payment of the compensation of members of office staffs designated by the apparent successful candidate at rates determined by them not to exceed the rate provided by the Classification Act of 1949, as amended [chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5], for grade GS–18: Provided, That any employee of any agency of any branch of the Government, or an employee of a committee of either House of Congress, a joint committee of the Congress, or an individual Member of Congress, may be detailed to such staffs on a reimbursable basis with the consent of the head of the agency, or in the case of an employee in a position in the legislative branch, with the consent of the supervising Member of Congress; and while so detailed such employee shall be responsible only to the apparent successful candidate for the performance of his duties: Provided further, That any employee so detailed shall continue to receive the compensation provided pursuant to law for his regular employment, and shall retain the rights and privileges of such employment without interruption. Notwithstanding any other law, persons receiving compensation as members of office staffs under this subsection, other than those detailed from agencies, shall not be held or considered to be employees of the Federal Government except for purposes of the Civil Service Retirement Act [section 8301 et seq. of title 5], the Federal Employees’ Compensation Act [section 8501 et seq. of title 5], the Federal Employees’ Group Life Insurance Act of 1954 [section 8701 et seq. of title 5], and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act of 1959 [section 8901 et seq. of title 5].

“(3) Payment of expenses for the procurement of services of experts or consultants or organizations thereof for the apparent successful candidate, as authorized for the head of any department by section 15 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended (5 U.S.C. 55a) [section 3109 of title 5].

“(4)(A) Payment of travel expenses and subsistence allowances, including rental of Government or hired motor vehicles, found necessary by the apparent successful candidate, as authorized for persons employed intermittently or for persons serving without compensation by section 5 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946, as amended (5 U.S.C. 73b–2) [section 5703 of title 5], as may be appropriate;

“(B) When requested by the apparent successful candidate or their designee, and approved by the President, Government aircraft may be provided for transition purposes on a reimbursable basis; when requested by the apparent successful candidate or their designee, aircraft may be chartered for transition purposes; and any collections from the Secret Service, press, or others occupying space on chartered aircraft shall be deposited to the credit of the appropriations made under section 7 of this Act.

“(5) Communications services found necessary by the apparent successful candidate.

“(6) Payment of expenses for necessary printing and binding, notwithstanding the Act of January 12, 1895, and the Act of March 1, 1919, as amended (44 U.S.C. 111) [section 501 of title 44].

“(7) Reimbursement to the postal revenues in amounts equivalent to the postage that would otherwise be payable on mail matter referred to in subsection (d) of this section.

“(8)(A)(i) Not withstanding subsection (b), payment of expenses during the transition and during the term of a President for briefings, workshops, or other activities to acquaint key prospective Presidential appointees with the types of problems and challenges that most typically confront new political appointees when they make the transition from campaign and other prior activities to assuming the responsibility for governance.

“(ii) Activities under this paragraph may include interchange between such appointees and individuals who—“(I) held similar leadership roles in prior administrations;

“(II) are department or agency experts from the Office of Management and Budget or an Office of Inspector General of a department or agency; or

“(III) are relevant staff from the Government Accountability Office.

“(iii) Activities under this paragraph may include training or orientation in records management to comply with section 2203 of title 44, United States Code, including training on the separation of Presidential records and personal records to comply with subsection (b) of that section.

“(iv) Activities under this paragraph may include training or orientation in human resources management and performance-based management.

“(v) Activities under this paragraph shall include the preparation of a detailed classified, compartmented summary by the relevant outgoing executive branch officials of specific operational threats to national security; major military or covert operations; and pending decisions on possible uses of military force. This summary shall be provided to the apparent successful candidate for the office of President as soon as possible after the date of the general elections held to determine the electors of President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code.

“(B) Activities under this paragraph shall be conducted primarily for individuals the apparent successful candidate for the office of President or eligible candidate (as defined in subsection (h)(4)) for President intends to nominate as department heads or appoint to key positions in the Executive Office of the President or Executive agencies (as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code).

“(9)(A) Notwithstanding subsection (b), development of a transition directory by the Administrator of General Services Administration, in consultation with the Archivist of the United States (head of the National Archives and Records Administration) for activities conducted under paragraph (8).

“(B) The transition directory shall be a compilation of Federal publications and materials with supplementary materials developed by the Administrator that provides information on the officers, organization, and statutory and administrative authorities, functions, duties, responsibilities, and mission of each department and agency.

“(10) Notwithstanding subsection (b), consultation by the Administrator with any apparent successful candidate or eligible candidate (as defined in subsection (h)(4)) to develop a systems architecture plan for the computer and communications systems of the candidate to coordinate a transition to Federal systems if the candidate is elected including, to the greatest extent practicable, human resource management system software compatible with the software used by the incumbent President and likely to be used by the apparent successful candidates.

“(b) The Administrator shall expend funds for the provision of services and facilities under this section—“(1) in connection with any obligation incurred by the apparent successful candidates, or after the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of President as President and the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of Vice President as Vice President incurred by the President or Vice President, during the period—“(A) beginning on the day after the date of the general elections held to determine the electors of the President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code; and

“(B) ending on the date that is 60 days after the date of such inauguration; and

“(2) without regard to whether the apparent successful candidate, President, or Vice President submits to the Administrator a request for payment regarding services or facilities before the end of such period.

“(c)(1) Apparent Successful Candidates.—“(A) In general.—For purposes of this Act, the ‘apparent successful candidate’ for the office of President and Vice President, respectively, shall be determined as follows:“(i) If all but one eligible candidate for the office of President and one eligible candidate for the office of Vice President, respectively, concede the election, then the candidate for each such office who has not conceded shall be the apparent successful candidate for each such office.

“(ii) If, on the date that is 5 days after the date of the election, more than one eligible candidate for the office of President has not conceded the election, then each of the remaining eligible candidates for such office and the office of Vice President who have not conceded shall be treated as the apparent successful candidates until such time as a single candidate for the office of President is treated as the apparent successful candidate pursuant to clause (iii) or clause (iv).

“(iii) If a single candidate for the office of President or Vice President is determined by the Administrator to meet the qualifications under subparagraph (B), the Administrator may determine that such candidate shall solely be treated as the apparent successful candidate for that office until such time as a single candidate for the office of President is treated as the apparent successful candidate pursuant to clause (iv).

“(iv) If a single candidate for the office of President or Vice President is the apparent successful candidate for such office under subparagraph (C), that candidate shall solely be treated as the apparent successful candidate for that office.

“(B) Interim discretionary qualifications.—On or after the date that is 5 days after the date of the election, the Administrator may determine that a single candidate for the office of President or Vice President shall be treated as the sole apparent successful candidate for that office pursuant to subparagraph (A)(iii) if it is substantially certain the candidate will receive a majority of the pledged votes of electors, based on consideration of the following factors:“(i) The results of the election for such office in States in which significant legal challenges that could alter the outcome of the election in the State have been substantially resolved, such that the outcome is substantially certain.

“(ii) The certified results of the election for such office in States in which the certification is complete.

“(iii) The results of the election for such office in States in which there is substantial certainty of an apparent successful candidate based on the totality of the circumstances.

“(C) Mandatory qualifications.—“(i) In general.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) or (B), a candidate shall be the sole apparent successful candidate for the office of President or Vice President pursuant to subparagraph (A)(iv) for purposes of this Act if—“(I) the candidate receives a majority of pledged votes of electors of such office based on certifications by States of their final canvass, and the conclusion of any recounts, legal actions, or administrative actions pertaining to the results of the election for such office;

“(II) in the case where subclause (I) is not met, the candidate receives a majority of votes of electors of such office at the meeting and vote of electors under section 7 of title 3, United States Code; or

“(III) in the case where neither subclause (I) or (II) is met, the candidate is declared as the person elected to such office at the joint session of Congress under section 15 of title 3, United States Code.

“(ii) Clarification if state unable to certify election results or appoints more than one slate of electors.—For purposes of subclauses (I) and (II) of clause (i), if a State is unable to certify its election results or a State appoints more than one slate of electors, the votes of the electors of such State shall not count towards meeting the qualifications under such subclauses.

“(2) Period of Multiple Possible Apparent Successful Candidates.—During any period in which there is more than one possible apparent successful candidate for the office of President—“(A) the Administrator is authorized to provide, upon request, to each remaining eligible candidate for such office and the office of Vice President described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) access to services and facilities pursuant to this Act;

“(B) the Administrator, in conjunction with the Federal Transition Coordinator designated under section 4(c) and the senior career employee of each agency and senior career employee of each major component and subcomponent of each agency designated under subsection (f)(1) to oversee and implement the activities of the agency, component, or subcomponent relating to the Presidential transition, shall make efforts to ensure that each such candidate is provided equal access to agency information and spaces as requested pursuant to this Act;

“(C) the Administrator shall provide weekly reports to Congress containing a brief summary of the status of funds being distributed to such candidates under this Act, the level of access to agency information and spaces provided to such candidates, and the status of such candidates with respect to meeting the qualifications to be the apparent successful candidate for the office of President or Vice President under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1); and

“(D) if a single candidate for the office of President or Vice President is treated as the apparent successful candidate for such office pursuant to subparagraph (A)(iii) or (A)(iv) of paragraph (1), not later than 24 hours after such treatment is effective, the Administrator shall make available to the public a written statement that such candidate is treated as the sole apparent successful candidate for such office for purposes of this Act, including a description of the legal basis and reasons for such treatment based on the qualifications under subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1), as applicable.

“(3) Definition.—In this subsection, the term ‘eligible candidate’ has the meaning given that term in subsection (h)(4).

“(d) Each apparent successful candidate for the office of President shall be entitled to conveyance within the United States and its territories and possessions of all mail matter, including airmail, sent by him in connection with his preparations for the assumption of official duties as President, and such mail matter shall be transmitted as penalty mail as provided in title 39, United States Code, section 4152 [now section 3202 of title 39]. Each apparent successful candidate for the office of Vice-President shall be entitled to conveyance within the United States and its territories and possessions of all mail matter, including airmail, sent by him under his written autograph signature in connection with his preparations for the assumption of official duties as Vice President.

“(e) Each apparent successful candidate, or eligible candidate (as defined in subsection (h)(4)) for President or Vice-President, may designate to the Administrator an assistant authorized to make on his behalf such designations or findings of necessity as may be required in connection with the services and facilities to be provided under this Act. Not more than 10 per centum of the total expenditures under this Act for any apparent successful candidate may be made upon the basis of a certificate by the candidate or their designee pursuant to this section that such expenditures are classified and are essential to the national security, and that they accord with the provisions of subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this section.

“(f)(1) Any apparent successful candidate for the office of President should submit to the Federal Bureau of Investigation or other appropriate agency and then, upon taking effect and designation, to the agency designated by the President under section 115(b) of the National Intelligence Reform Act of 2004 [probably should be section 3001(c) of Pub. L. 108–458, 50 U.S.C. 3341(c)], the names of candidates for high level national security positions through the level of undersecretary of cabinet departments as soon as possible after the date of the general elections held to determine the electors of President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code.

“(2) The responsible agency or agencies shall undertake and complete as expeditiously as possible the background investigations necessary to provide appropriate security clearances to the individuals who are candidates described under paragraph (1) before the date of the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of President as President and the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of Vice President as Vice President.

“(g) In the case where an apparent successful candidate for the office of President is the incumbent President or in the case where an apparent successful candidate for the office of Vice President is the incumbent Vice President, except for activities under subsection (a)(8)(A), there shall be no expenditures of funds for the provision of services and facilities to such incumbent under this Act, and any funds appropriated for such purposes shall be returned to the general funds of the Treasury.

“(h)(1)(A) In the case of an eligible candidate, the Administrator—“(i) shall notify the candidate of the candidate’s right to receive the services and facilities described in paragraph (2) and shall provide with such notice a description of the nature and scope of each such service and facility; and

“(ii) upon notification by the candidate of which such services and facilities such candidate will accept, shall, notwithstanding subsection (b), provide such services and facilities to the candidate during the period beginning on the date of the notification and ending on the date of the general elections described in subsection (b)(1).

The Administrator shall also notify the candidate that sections 7601(c) and 8403(b) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 [Pub. L. 108–458; 50 U.S.C. 3342 and 5 U.S.C. 1101 note] provide additional services.

“(B) The Administrator shall provide the notice under subparagraph (A)(i) to each eligible candidate—“(i) in the case of a candidate of a major party (as defined in section 9002(6) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 9002(6)]), on one of the first 3 business days following the last nominating convention for such major parties; and

“(ii) in the case of any other candidate, as soon as practicable after an individual becomes an eligible candidate (or, if later, at the same time as notice is provided under clause (i)).

“(C)(i) The Administrator shall, not later than 12 months before the date of each general election for President and Vice-President (beginning with the election to be held in 2012), prepare a report summarizing modern presidential transition activities, including a bibliography of relevant resources.

“(ii) The Administrator shall promptly make the report under clause (i) generally available to the public (including through electronic means) and shall include such report with the notice provided to each eligible candidate under subparagraph (A)(i).

“(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the services and facilities described in this paragraph are the services and facilities described in subsection (a) (other than paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (7), and 8(A)(v) thereof), but only to the extent that the use of the services and facilities is for use in connection with the eligible candidate’s preparations for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice-President.

“(B) The Administrator—“(i) shall determine the location of any office space provided to an eligible candidate under this subsection;

“(ii) shall, as appropriate, ensure that any information technology or communications services provided to an eligible candidate under this subsection are secure;

“(iii) shall offer information and other assistance to eligible candidates on an equal basis and without regard to political affiliation; and

“(iv) may modify the scope of any services to be provided under this subsection to reflect that the services are provided to eligible candidates rather than an apparent successful candidate, except that any such modification must apply to all eligible candidates.

“(C) An eligible candidate, or any person on behalf of the candidate, shall not use any services or facilities provided under this subsection other than for the purposes described in subparagraph (A), and the candidate or the candidate’s campaign shall reimburse the Administrator for any unauthorized use of such services or facilities.

“(D) An eligible candidate shall have a right to the services and facilities described in this paragraph until the date on which the Administrator is able to determine the apparent successful candidates for the office of President and Vice President.

“(3)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an eligible candidate may establish a separate fund for the payment of expenditures in connection with the eligible candidate’s preparations for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice-President, including expenditures in connection with any services or facilities provided under this subsection (whether before such services or facilities are available under this section or to supplement such services or facilities when so provided). Such fund shall be established and maintained in such manner as to qualify such fund for purposes of section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 501(c)(4)].

“(B)(i) The eligible candidate may—“(I) transfer to any separate fund established under subparagraph (A) contributions (within the meaning of section 301(8) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431(8)) [now 52 U.S.C. 30101(8)]) the candidate received for the general election for President or Vice-President or payments from the Presidential Election Campaign Fund under chapter 95 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 9001 et seq.] the candidate received for the general election; and

“(II) solicit and accept amounts for receipt by such separate fund.

“(ii) Any expenditures from the separate fund that are made from such contributions or payments described in clause (i)(I) shall be treated as expenditures (within the meaning of section 301(9) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 431(9)) [now 52 U.S.C. 30101(9)]) or qualified campaign expenses (within the meaning of section 9002(11) of such Code [26 U.S.C. 9002(11)]), whichever is applicable.

“(iii) An eligible candidate establishing a separate fund under subparagraph (A) shall (as a condition for receiving services and facilities described in paragraph (2)) comply with all requirements and limitations of section 6 in soliciting or expending amounts in the same manner as an apparent successful candidate, including reporting on the transfer and expenditure of amounts described in subparagraph (B)(i) in the disclosures required by section 6.

“(4)(A) In this subsection, the term ‘eligible candidate’ means, with respect to any presidential election (as defined in section 9002(10) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 [26 U.S.C. 9002(10)])—“(i) a candidate of a major party (as defined in section 9002(6) of such Code [26 U.S.C. 9002(6)]) for President or Vice-President of the United States; and

“(ii) any other candidate who has been determined by the Administrator to be among the principal contenders for the general election to such offices.

“(B) In making a determination under subparagraph (A)(ii), the Administrator shall—“(i) ensure that any candidate determined to be an eligible candidate under such subparagraph—“(I) meets the requirements described in Article II, Section 1, of the United States Constitution for eligibility to the office of President;

“(II) has qualified to have his or her name appear on the ballots of a sufficient number of States such that the total number of electors appointed in those States is greater than 50 percent of the total number of electors appointed in all of the States; and

“(III) has demonstrated a significant level of public support in national public opinion polls, so as to be realistically considered among the principal contenders for President or Vice-President of the United States; and

“(ii) consider whether other national organizations have recognized the candidate as being among the principal contenders for the general election to such offices, including whether the Commission on Presidential Debates has determined that the candidate is eligible to participate in the candidate debates for the general election to such offices.

“(i) Memorandums of Understanding.—“(1) In general.—Not later than September 1 of a year during which a Presidential election occurs, the Administrator shall, to the maximum extent practicable, enter into a memorandum of understanding with each eligible candidate, which shall include, at a minimum, the conditions for the administrative support services and facilities described in subsection (a).

“(2) Existing resources.—To the maximum extent practicable, a memorandum of understanding entered into under paragraph (1) shall be based on memorandums of understanding relating to previous Presidential transitions.

“(3) Transition representative.—“(A) Designation of representative for inquiries.—Each memorandum of understanding entered into under this subsection shall designate a representative of the eligible candidate to whom the Administrator shall direct any inquiries or legal instruments regarding the records of the eligible candidate that are in the custody of the Administrator.

“(B) Change in transition representative.—The designation of a new individual as the transition representative of an eligible candidate shall not require the execution of a new memorandum of understanding under this subsection.

“(C) Termination of designation.—The designation of a transition representative under a memorandum of understanding shall terminate—“(i) not later than September 30 of the year during which the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of President as President and the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of Vice President as Vice President occurs; or

“(ii) before the date described in clause (i), upon request of the apparent successful candidate or, after such inauguration, upon request of the President or the Vice President.

“(4) Amendments.—Any amendment to a memorandum of understanding entered into under this subsection shall be agreed to in writing.

“(5) Prior notification of deviation.—Each party to a memorandum of understanding entered into under this subsection shall provide written notice, except to the extent prohibited under another provision of law, not later than 3 days before taking any action that deviates from the terms and conditions agreed to in the memorandum of understanding.

“(6) Definition.—In this subsection, the term ‘eligible candidate’ has the meaning given that term in subsection (h)(4).

“SEC. 4. TRANSITION SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES BEFORE ELECTION.“(a) Definitions.—In this section—“(1) the term ‘Administrator’ means the Administrator of General Services;

“(2) the term ‘agency’ means an Executive agency, as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States Code;

“(3) the term ‘eligible candidate’ has the meaning given that term in section 3(h)(4);

“(4) the term ‘nonpublic information’—“(A) means information from the Federal Government that a member of a transition team obtains as part of the employment of the member that such member knows or reasonably should know has not been made available to the general public; and

“(B) includes information that a member of the transition team knows or reasonably should know—“(i) is exempt from disclosure under section 552 of title 5, United States Code, or otherwise protected from disclosure by law; and

“(ii) is not authorized by the appropriate government agency or officials to be released to the public; and

“(5) the term ‘Presidential election’ means a general election held to determine the electors of President and Vice President under section 1 or 2 of title 3, United States Code.

“(b) General Duties.—The President shall take such actions as the President determines necessary and appropriate to plan and coordinate activities by the Executive branch of the Federal Government to facilitate an efficient transfer of power to a successor President, including by—“(1) establishing and operating a White House transition coordinating council in accordance with subsection (d); and

“(2) establishing and operating an agency transition directors council in accordance with subsection (e).

“(c) Federal Transition Coordinator.—The Administrator shall designate an employee of the General Services Administration who is a senior career appointee to—“(1) carry out the duties and authorities of the General Services Administration relating to Presidential transitions under this Act or any other provision of law;

“(2) serve as the Federal Transition Coordinator with responsibility for coordinating transition planning across agencies, including through the agency transition directors council established under subsection (e);

“(3) ensure agencies comply with all statutory requirements relating to transition planning and reporting; and

“(4) act as a liaison to eligible candidates.

“(d) White House Transition Coordinating Council.—“(1) Establishment.—Not later than 6 months before the date of a Presidential election, the President shall establish a White House transition coordinating council for purposes of facilitating the Presidential transition.

“(2) Duties.—The White House transition coordinating council shall—“(A) provide guidance to agencies and the Federal Transition Coordinator regarding preparations for the Presidential transition, including succession planning and preparation of briefing materials;

“(B) facilitate communication and information sharing between the transition representatives of eligible candidates and senior employees in agencies and the Executive Office of the President; and

“(C) prepare and host interagency emergency preparedness and response exercises.

“(3) Membership.—The members of the White House transition coordinating council shall include—“(A) senior employees of the Executive branch selected by the President, which may include the Chief of Staff to the President, any Cabinet officer, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Administrator, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, the Director of the Office of Government Ethics, and the Archivist of the United States;

“(B) the Federal Transition Coordinator;

“(C) the transition representative for each eligible candidate, who shall serve in an advisory capacity; and

“(D) any other individual the President determines appropriate.

“(4) Chairperson.—The Chairperson of the White House transition coordinating council shall be a senior employee in the Executive Office of the President, designated by the President.

“(e) Agency Transition Directors Council.—“(1) In general.—The President shall establish and operate an agency transition directors council, which shall—“(A) ensure the Federal Government has an integrated strategy for addressing interagency challenges and responsibilities around Presidential transitions and turnover of noncareer appointees;

“(B) coordinate transition activities between the Executive Office of the President, agencies, and the transition team of eligible candidates and the apparent successful candidates (as determined by section 3(c)); and

“(C) draw on guidance provided by the White House transition coordinating council and lessons learned from previous Presidential transitions in carrying out its duties.

“(2) Duties.—As part of carrying out the responsibilities under paragraph (1), the agency transition directors council shall—“(A) assist the Federal Transition Coordinator in identifying and carrying out the responsibilities of the Federal Transition Coordinator relating to a Presidential transition;

“(B) provide guidance to agencies in gathering briefing materials and information relating to the Presidential transition that may be requested by eligible candidates;

“(C) ensure materials and information described in subparagraph (B) are prepared not later than November 1 of a year during which a Presidential election is held;

“(D) ensure agencies adequately prepare career employees who are designated to fill non-career positions under subsection (f) during a Presidential transition; and

“(E) consult with the President’s Management Council, or any successor thereto, in carrying out the duties of the agency transition directors council.

“(3) Membership.—The members of the agency transition directors council shall include—“(A) the Federal Transition Coordinator and the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget, who shall serve as Co-Chairpersons of the agency transition directors council;

“(B) other senior employees serving in the Executive Office of the President, as determined by the President;

“(C) a senior representative serving in a career position from each agency described in section 901(b)(1) of title 31, United States Code, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Government Ethics, and the National Archives and Records Administration whose responsibilities include leading Presidential transition efforts within the agency;

“(D) a senior representative serving in a career position from any other agency determined by the Co-Chairpersons to be an agency that has significant responsibilities relating to the Presidential transition process; and

“(E) during a year during which a Presidential election will be held, a transition representative for each eligible candidate, who shall serve in an advisory capacity.

“(4) Meetings.—The agency transition directors council shall meet—“(A) subject to subparagraph (B), not less than once per year; and

“(B) during the period beginning on the date that is 6 months before a Presidential election and ending on the date on which the apparent successful candidate for the office of President is inaugurated, on a regular basis as necessary to carry out the duties and authorities of the agency transition directors council.

“(f) Interim Agency Leadership for Transitions.—“(1) Oversight and implementation of transition.—Not later than 6 months before the date of a Presidential election, the head of each agency shall designate a senior career employee of the agency and a senior career employee of each major component and subcomponent of the agency to oversee and implement the activities of the agency, component, or subcomponent relating to the Presidential transition.

“(2) Acting officers.—Not later than September 15 of a year during which a Presidential election occurs, and in accordance with subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, the head of each agency shall ensure that a succession plan is in place for each senior noncareer position in the agency.

“(g) Memorandums of Understanding.—“(1) In general.—Not later than October 1 of a year during which a Presidential election occurs, the President (acting through the Federal Transition Coordinator) shall, to the maximum extent practicable, negotiate a memorandum of understanding with the transition representative of each eligible candidate, which shall include, at a minimum, the conditions of access to employees, facilities, and documents of agencies by transition staff.

“(2) Existing resources.—To the maximum extent practicable, the memorandums of understanding negotiated under paragraph (1) shall be based on memorandums of understanding from previous Presidential transitions.

“(3) Ethics plan.—“(A) In general.—Each memorandum of understanding under paragraph (1) shall include an agreement that the eligible candidate will implement and enforce an ethics plan to guide the conduct of the transition beginning on the date on which the eligible candidate becomes the apparent successful candidate for the office of President.

“(B) Contents.—The ethics plan shall include, at a minimum—“(i) a description of the ethics requirements that will apply to all members of the transition team, including any specific requirement for transition team members who will have access to nonpublic or classified information;

“(ii) a description of how the transition team will—     “(I) address the role on the transition team of—“(aa) lobbyists registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) and individuals who were former lobbyists registered under that Act; and

“(bb) persons registered under the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), foreign nationals, and other foreign agents;

     “(II) prohibit a transition team member with conflicts of interest similar to those applicable to Federal employees under section 2635.402(a) and section 2635.502(a) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, related to current or former employment, affiliations, clients, or investments, from working on particular matters involving specific parties that affect the interests of such member; and

     “(III) address how the covered eligible candidate will address his or her own conflicts of interest during a Presidential term if the covered eligible candidate becomes the apparent successful candidate for the office of President;

“(iii) a Code of Ethical Conduct, which each member of the transition team will sign and be subject to, that reflects the content of the ethics plans under this paragraph and at a minimum requires transition team members to—     “(I) seek authorization from transition team leaders or their designees before seeking, on behalf of the transition, access to any nonpublic information;

     “(II) keep confidential any nonpublic information provided in the course of the duties of the member with the transition and exclusively use such information for the purposes of the transition; and

     “(III) not use any nonpublic information provided in the course of transition duties, in any manner, for personal or private gain for the member or any other party at any time during or after the transition; and

“(iv) a description of how the transition team will enforce the Code of Ethical Conduct, including the names of the members of the transition team responsible for enforcement, oversight, and compliance.

“(C) Publicly available.—The transition team shall make the ethics plan described in this paragraph publicly available on the internet website of the General Services Administration the earlier of—“(i) the day on which the memorandum of understanding is completed; or

“(ii) October 1.

“(h) Equity in Assistance.—Any information or other assistance provided to eligible candidates under this section shall be offered on an equal basis and without regard to political affiliation.

“(i) Reports.—“(1) In general.—The President, acting through the Federal Transition Coordinator, shall submit to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform [now Committee on Oversight and Accountability] of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate reports describing the activities undertaken by the President and agencies to prepare for the transfer of power to a new President.

“(2) Timing.—The reports under paragraph (1) shall be provided 6 months and 3 months before the date of a Presidential election.

“Sec. 5. The Administrator is authorized to provide, upon request, to each former President and each former Vice President, for a period not to exceed seven months from 30 days before the date of the expiration of his term of office as President or Vice President, for use in connection with winding up the affairs of his office, necessary services and facilities of the same general character as authorized by this Act to be provided to apparent successful candidates (as determined by section 3(c)). Any person appointed or detailed to serve a former President or former Vice President under authority of this section shall be appointed or detailed in accordance with, and shall be subject to, all of the provisions of section 3 of this Act applicable to persons appointed or detailed under authority of that section. The provisions of the Act of August 25, 1958 (72 Stat. 838; 3 U.S.C. 102, note), other than subsections (a) and (e) shall not become effective with respect to a former President until six months after the expiration of his term of office as President.
“Sec. 6. (a)(1) Each apparent successful candidate (as determined by section 3(c)) (as a condition for receiving services under section 3 and for funds provided under section 7(a)(1)) shall disclose to the Administrator the date of contribution, source, amount, and expenditure thereof of all money, other than funds from the Federal Government, and including currency of the United States and of any foreign nation, checks, money orders, or any other negotiable instruments payable on demand, received either before or after the date of the general elections for use in the preparation of the apparent successful candidate for the assumption of official duties as President or Vice President.

“(2) Each apparent successful candidate (as a condition for receiving such services and funds) shall make available to the Administrator and the Comptroller General all information concerning such contributions as the Administrator or Comptroller General may require for purposes of auditing both the public and private funding used in the activities authorized by this Act.

“(3) Disclosures made under paragraph (1) shall be—“(A) in the form of a report to the Administrator within 30 days after the inauguration of the apparent successful candidate for the office of President as President and the apparent successful candidate for the office of Vice-President as Vice President; and

“(B) made available to the public by the Administrator upon receipt by the Administrator.

“(b)(1) Each apparent successful candidate (as a condition for receiving services provided under section 3 and funds provided under section 7(a)(1)) shall make available to the public—“(A) the names and most recent employment of all transition personnel (full-time or part-time, public or private, or volunteer) who are members of the apparent successful candidate’s Federal department or agency transition teams; and

“(B) information regarding the sources of funding which support the transition activities of each transition team member.

“(2) Disclosures under paragraph (1) shall be made public before the initial transition team contact with a Federal department or agency and shall be updated as necessary.

“(c) Each apparent successful candidate (as a condition for receiving services under section 3 and for funds provided under section 7(a)(1)) shall not accept more than $5,000 from any person, organization, or other entity for purposes of carrying out activities authorized by this Act.

“Sec. 7. (a) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator such funds as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act, except that with respect to any one Presidential transition—“(1) not more than $3,500,000 may be appropriated for the purposes of providing services and facilities to the apparent successful candidates under section 3, and

“(2) not more than $1,500,000 may be appropriated for the purposes of providing services and facilities to the former President and former Vice President under section 5, except that any amount appropriated pursuant to this paragraph in excess of $1,250,000 shall be returned to the general fund of the Treasury in the case where the former Vice President is the incumbent President.

The President shall include in the budget transmitted to Congress, for each fiscal year in which his regular term of office will expire, a proposed appropriation for carrying out the purposes of this Act.

“(b) The amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection (a) shall be increased by an inflation adjusted amount, based on increases in the cost of transition services and expenses which have occurred in the years following the most recent Presidential transition, and shall be included in the proposed appropriation transmitted by the President under the last sentence of subsection (a).”

§ 103. Traveling expenses
There may be expended for or on account of the traveling expenses of the President of the United States such sum as Congress may from time to time appropriate, not exceeding $100,000 per annum, such sum when appropriated to be expended in the discretion of the President and accounted for on his certificate solely.

§ 104. Salary of the Vice President(a) The per annum rate of salary of the Vice President of the United States shall be the rate determined for such position under chapter 11 of title 2, as adjusted under this section. Subject to subsection (b), effective at the beginning of the first month in which an adjustment takes effect under section 5303 of title 5 in the rates of pay under the General Schedule, the salary of the Vice President shall be adjusted by an amount, rounded to the nearest multiple of $100 (or if midway between multiples of $100, to the nearest higher multiple of $100), equal to the percentage of such per annum rate which corresponds to the most recent percentage change in the ECI (relative to the date described in the next sentence), as determined under section 704(a)(1) of the Ethics Reform Act of 1989. The appropriate date under this sentence is the first day of the fiscal year in which such adjustment in the rates of pay under the General Schedule takes effect.

(b) In no event shall the percentage adjustment taking effect under the second and third sentences of subsection (a) in any calendar year (before rounding) exceed the percentage adjustment taking effect in such calendar year under section 5303 of title 5 in the rates of pay under the General Schedule.

§ 105. Assistance and services for the President(a)(1) Subject to the provisons 1 of paragraph (2) of this subsection, the President is authorized to appoint and fix the pay of employees in the White House Office without regard to any other provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service. Employees so appointed shall perform such official duties as the President may prescribe.

(2) The President may, under paragraph (1) of this subsection, appoint and fix the pay of not more than—(A) 25 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5; and in addition

(B) 25 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level III of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of title 5; and in addition

(C) 50 employees at rates not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and in addition

(D) such number of other employees as he may determine to be appropriate at rates not to exceed the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5.

(b)(1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection, the President is authorized to appoint and fix the pay of employees in the Executive Residence at the White House without regard to any other provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service. Employees so appointed shall perform such official duties as the President may prescribe.

(2) The President may, under paragraph (1) of this subsection, appoint and fix the pay of not more than—(A) 3 employees at rates not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and in addition

(B) such number of other employees as he may determine to be appropriate at rates not to exceed the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5.

(c) The President is authorized to procure for the White House Office and the Executive Residence at the White House, as provided in appropriation Acts, temporary or intermittent services of experts and consultants, as described in and in accordance with the first two sentences of section 3109(b) of title 5—(1) in the case of the White House Office, at respective daily rates of pay for individuals which are not more than the daily equivalent of the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5; and

(2) in the case of the Executive Residence, at respective daily rates of pay for individuals which are not more than the daily equivalent of the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5.

Notwithstanding such section 3109(b), temporary services of any expert or consultant described in such section 3109(b) may be procured for a period in excess of one year if the President determines such procurement is necessary.

(d) There are authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year to the President such sums as may be necessary for—(1) the care, maintenance, repair, alteration, refurnishing, improvement, air-conditioning, heating, and lighting (including electric power and fixtures) of the Executive Residence at the White House;

(2) the official expenses of the White House Office;

(3) the official entertainment expenses of the President;

(4) the official entertainment expenses for allocation within the Executive Office of the President; and

(5) the subsistence expenses of persons in the Government service while traveling on official business in connection with the travel of the President.

Sums appropriated under this subsection for expenses described in paragraphs (1), (3), and (5) may be expended as the President may determine, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law. Such sums shall be accounted for solely on the certificate of the President, except that, with respect to such expenses, the Comptroller General may inspect all necessary books, documents, papers, and records relating to any such expenditures solely for the purpose of verifying that all such expenditures related to expenses in paragraph (1), (3), or (5). The Comptroller General shall certify to Congress the fact of such verification, and shall report any such expenses not expended for such purpose.

(e) Assistance and services authorized pursuant to this section to the President are authorized to be provided to the spouse of the President in connection with assistance provided by such spouse to the President in the discharge of the President’s duties and responsibilities. If the President does not have a spouse, such assistance and services may be provided for such purposes to a member of the President’s family whom the President designates.

§ 106. Assistance and services for the Vice President(a) In order to enable the Vice President to provide assistance to the President in connection with the performance of functions specially assigned to the Vice President by the President in the discharge of executive duties and responsibilities, the Vice President is authorized—(1) without regard to any other provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service, to appoint and fix the pay of not more than—(A) 5 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5; and in addition

(B) 3 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level III of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of title 5; and in addition

(C) 3 employees at rates not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and in addition

(D) such number of other employees as he may determine to be appropriate at rates not to exceed the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and

(2) to procure, as provided in appropriation Acts, temporary or intermittent services of experts and consultants, as described in and in accordance with the first two sentences of section 3109(b) of title 5, at respective daily rates of pay for individuals which are not more than the daily equivalent of the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5.

Notwithstanding such section 3109(b), temporary services of any expert or consultant described in such section 3109(b) may be procured under paragraph (2) of this subsection for a period in excess of one year if the Vice President determines such procurement is necessary.

(b) In order to carry out the executive duties and responsibilities referred to in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year to the Vice President such sums as may be necessary for—(1) the official expenses of the Office of the Vice President;

(2) the official entertainment expenses of the Vice President; and

(3) the subsistence expenses of persons in the Government service while traveling on official business in connection with the travel of the Vice President.

Sums appropriated under this subsection for expenses described in paragraphs (2) and (3) may be expended as the Vice President may determine, notwithstanding the provisions of any other law. Such sums shall be accounted for solely on the certificate of the Vice President, except that, with respect to such expenses, the Comptroller General may inspect all necessary books, documents, papers, and records relating to any such expenditures solely for the purpose of verifying that all such expenditures related to expenses in paragraph (2) or (3). The Comptroller General shall certify to Congress the fact of such verification, and shall report any such expenses not expended for such purpose.

(c) Assistance and services authorized pursuant to this section to the Vice President are authorized to be provided to the spouse of the Vice President in connection with assistance provided by such spouse to the Vice President in the discharge of the Vice President’s executive duties and responsibilities. If the Vice President does not have a spouse, such assistance and services may be provided for such purposes to a member of the Vice President’s family whom the Vice President designates.

§ 107. Domestic Policy Staff and Office of Administration; personnel(a) In order to enable the Domestic Policy Staff to perform its functions, the President (or his designee) is authorized—(1) without regard to any other provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service, to appoint and fix the pay of not more than—(A) 6 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level III of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of title 5; and in addition

(B) 18 employees at rates not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and in addition

(C) such number of other employees as he may determine to be appropriate at rates not to exceed the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and

(2) to procure, as provided in appropriation Acts, temporary or intermittent services of experts and consultants, as described in and in accordance with the first two sentences of section 3109(b) of title 5, at respective daily rates of pay for individuals which are not more than the daily equivalent of the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level III of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of title 5.

(b)(1) In order to enable the Office of Administration to perform its functions, the President (or his designee) is authorized—(A) without regard to such other provisions of law as the President may specify which regulate the employment and compensation of persons in the Government service, to appoint and fix the pay of not more than—(i) 5 employees at rates not to exceed the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level III of the Executive Schedule of section 5314 of title 5; and in addition

(ii) 5 employees at rates not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5; and

(B) to procure, as provided in appropriation Acts, temporary or intermittent services of experts and consultants, as described in and in accordance with the first two sentences of section 3109(b) of title 5, at respective daily rates of pay for individuals which are not more than the daily equivalent of the maximum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–18 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5.

(2) In addition to any authority granted under paragraph (1) of this subsection, the President (or his designee) is authorized to employ individuals in the Office of Administration in accordance with section 3101 of title 5 and provisions relating thereto. Any individual so employed under the authority granted under such section 3101 shall be subject to the limitation specified in section 114 of this title.

(c) There are authorized to be appropriated each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary for the official expenses of the Domestic Policy Staff and the Office of Administration.

“In the case of an individual—“(1) who is an employee of the Office of Administration as of the date of the enactment of this Act [Nov. 2, 1978], and

“(2) whose position would be terminated or whose rate of basic pay would be reduced (but for this subsection) by reason of section 107(b) of title 3, United States Code (as amended by this Act) [subsec. (b) of this section],

such employee may be allowed to continue to hold such position and receive basic pay at the rate in effect on the effective date of this Act [see Effective Date of 1978 Amendment note set out under section 102 of this title] during the period which begins on such date and ends 2 years after such date so long as such employee continues as an employee of the Office of Administration.”
§ 108. Assistance to the President for unanticipated needs(a) There is authorized to be appropriated to the President an amount not to exceed $1,000,000 each fiscal year to enable the President, in his discretion, to meet unanticipated needs for the furtherance of the national interest, security, or defense, including personnel needs and needs for services described in section 3109(b) of title 5, and administrative expenses related thereto, without regard to any provision of law regulating the employment or compensation of persons in the Government service or regulating expenditures of Government funds.

(b) The President shall transmit a report to each House of the Congress for each fiscal year beginning on or after the effective date of this subsection which sets forth the purposes for which expenditures were made under this section for such fiscal year and the amount expended for each such purpose. Each such report shall be transmitted no later than 60 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by such report.

(c) An individual may not be paid under the authority of this section at a rate of pay in excess of the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level II of the Executive Schedule of section 5313 of title 5.

§ 109. Public property in and belonging to the Executive Residence at the White House
The steward, housekeeper, or such other employee of the Executive Residence at the White House as the President may designate, shall under the direction of the President, have the charge and custody of and be responsible for the plate, furniture, and public property therein. A complete inventory, in proper books, shall be made annually in the month of June, under the direction of the Director of the National Park Service, of all the public property in and belonging to the Executive Residence at the White House, showing when purchased, its cost, condition, and final disposition. This inventory shall be submitted to the President for his approval, and shall then be kept for reference in the office of the Director of the National Park Service, which shall furnish a copy thereof to the steward, housekeeper, or other employee responsible for the property.

§ 110. Furniture for the Executive Residence at the White House
All furniture purchased for the use of the Executive Residence at the White House shall be, as far as practicable, of domestic manufacture. With a view to conserving in the Executive Residence at the White House the best specimens of the early American furniture and furnishings, and for the purpose of maintaining the interior of the Executive Residence at the White House in keeping with its original design, the Director of the National Park Service is authorized and directed, with the approval of the President, to accept donations of furniture and furnishings for use in the Executive Residence at the White House, all such articles thus donated to become the property of the United States and to be accounted for as such. The said Director of the National Park Service is further authorized and directed, with the approval of the President, to appoint a temporary committee composed of one representative of the American Federation of Arts, one representative of the National Commission of Fine Arts, one representative of the National Academy of Design, one member of the American Institute of Architects, and five members representing the public at large; the said committee to have full power to select and pass on the articles in question and to recommend the same for acceptance.

“Sec. 2. Articles of furniture, fixtures, and decorative objects of the White House, when declared by the President to be of historic or artistic interest, together with such similar articles, fixtures, and objects as are acquired by the White House in the future when similarly so declared, shall thereafter be considered to be inalienable and the property of the White House. Any such article, fixture, or object when not in use or on display in the White House shall be transferred by direction of the President as a loan to the Smithsonian Institution for its care, study, and storage or exhibition and such articles, fixtures, and objects shall be returned to the White House from the Smithsonian Institution on notice by the President.
“Sec. 3. Nothing in this Act shall alter any privileges, powers, or duties vested in the White House Police and the United States Secret Service, Treasury Department, by [former] section 202 of title 3, United States Code, and section 3056 of title 18, United States Code.”
§ 111. Expense allowance of Vice President
There shall be paid to the Vice President in equal monthly installments an expense allowance of $20,000 per annum to assist in defraying expenses relating to or resulting from the discharge of his official duties, for which no accounting, other than for income tax purposes, shall be made by him.

“Sec. 2. The temporary official residence of the Vice President shall be adequately staffed and provided with such appropriate equipment, furnishings, dining facilities, services, and other provisions as may be required, under the supervision and direction of the Vice President, to enable him to perform and discharge appropriately the duties, functions, and obligations associated with his high office.
“Sec. 3. The Secretary of the Navy shall, subject to the supervision and control of the Vice President, provide for the military staffing, utilities (including electrical) for, and the care and maintenance of the grounds of the temporary official residence of the Vice President and, subject to reimbursement therefor out of funds appropriated for such purposes, provide for the civilian staffing, care, maintenance, repair, improvement, alteration, and furnishing of such residence.
“Sec. 4. There is hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary from time to time to carry out the foregoing provisions of this joint resolution. During any interim period until and before any such funds are so appropriated, the Secretary of the Navy shall make provision for staffing and other appropriate services in connection with the temporary official residence of the Vice President from funds available to the Department of the Navy, subject to reimbursement therefor from funds subsequently appropriated to carry out the purposes of this joint resolution.
“Sec. 5. After the date on which the Vice President moves into the temporary official residence provided for in this joint resolution no funds may be expended for the maintenance, care, repair, furnishing, or security of any residence for the Vice President other than the temporary official residence provided for in this joint resolution unless the expenditure of such funds is specifically authorized by law enacted after such date.
“Sec. 6. The Secretary of the Navy is authorized and directed, with the approval of the Vice President, to accept donations of money or property for the furnishing of or making improvements in or about, or for use at official functions in or about, the temporary official residence of the Vice President, all such donations to become the property of the United States and to be accounted for as such.
“Sec. 7. [Amended former section 202 of this title].
“Sec. 8. [Amended section 3056(a) of title 18].
“Sec. 9. It is the sense of Congress that living accommodations, generally equivalent to those available to the highest ranking officer on active duty in each of the other military services, should be provided for the Chief of Naval Operations.”
“Sec. 2. The Administrator is further authorized to use as a site for such residence Federal land and property comprising approximately ten acres at the United States Naval Observatory, the specific area and boundaries thereof to be determined jointly by the General Services Administration and the Department of the Navy: Provided, That any roads and improvements thereon for which there is a continued need may be relocated and reconstructed.
“Sec. 3. The Administrator is further authorized to provide for the care, maintenance, repair, improvement, alteration, and furnishing of the official residence and grounds, including heating, lighting, and air conditioning, which services shall be provided at the expense of the United States.
“Sec. 4. The Administrator of General Services is further authorized to accept cash gifts, furniture, and furnishings and other types of gifts on behalf of the United States for use in constructing and furnishing the official residence but without further conditions on use, all such articles thus given to become the property of the United States.
“Sec. 5. There is authorized to be appropriated to the General Services Administration, the sum of $750,000 for planning, design, construction, and costs incidental thereto, including the cost of initial furnishings.
“Sec. 6. There is further authorized to be appropriated to the General Services Administration, annually, such amounts as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of section 3.”
§ 112. Detail of employees of executive departments
The head of any department, agency, or independent establishment of the executive branch of the Government may detail, from time to time, employees of such department, agency, or establishment to the White House Office, the Executive Residence at the White House, the Office of the Vice President, the Domestic Policy Staff, and the Office of Administration. Any such office to which an employee has been detailed for service to such office shall reimburse the detailing department, agency, or establishment for the pay of each employee thereof—(1) who is so detailed, and

(2) who is performing services which have been or would otherwise be performed by an employee of such office,

for any period occurring during any fiscal year after 180 calendar days after the employee is detailed in such year.

§ 113. Personnel report(a) The President shall transmit to each House of the Congress, and make available to the public, reports containing information described in subsection (b) for each fiscal year beginning on or after the effective date of this section. Each such report shall be transmitted no later than 60 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by such report and shall contain a statement of such information for such year.

(b) Each report required under subsection (a) shall contain—(1) the number of employees who are paid at a rate of basic pay equal to or greater than the rate of basic pay then currently paid for level V of the Executive Schedule of section 5316 of title 5 and who are employed in the White House Office, the Executive Residence at the White House, the Office of the Vice President, the Domestic Policy Staff, or the Office of Administration, and the aggregate amount paid to such employees;

(2) the number of employees employed in such offices who are paid at a rate of basic pay which is equal to or greater than the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5 but which is less than the rate then currently paid for level V of the Executive Schedule of section 5316 of title V 1 and the aggregate amount paid to such employees;

(3) the number of employees employed in such offices who are paid at a rate of basic pay which is less than the minimum rate then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title V 1, and the aggregate amount paid to such employees;

(4) the number of individuals detailed under section 112 of this title for more than 30 days to each such office, the number of days in excess of 30 each individual was detailed, and the aggregate amount of reimbursement made as provided by the provisions of section 112 of this title; and

(5) the number of individuals whose services as experts or consultants are procured under this chapter for service in any such office, the total number of days employed, and the aggregate amount paid to procure such services.

The information required under this subsection to be in any report shall be shown both in the aggregate and by office involved.

§ 114. General pay limitation
Notwithstanding any provision of law, other than the provisions of this chapter, no employee of the White House Office, the Executive Residence at the White House, the Domestic Policy Staff, or the Office of Administration, nor any employee under the Vice President appointed under section 106 of this title, may be paid at a rate of basic pay in excess of the minimum rate of basic pay then currently paid for GS–16 of the General Schedule of section 5332 of title 5.

§ 115. Veterans’ preference(a) Subject to subsection (b), appointments under sections 105, 106, and 107 shall be made in accordance with section 2108, and sections 3309 through 3312, of title 5.

(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to any appointment to a position the rate of basic pay for which is at least equal to the minimum rate established for positions in the Senior Executive Service under section 5382 of title 5 and the duties of which are comparable to those described in section 3132(a)(2) of such title or to any other position if, with respect to such position, the President makes certification—(1) that such position is—(A) a confidential or policy-making position; or

(B) a position for which political affiliation or political philosophy is otherwise an important qualification; and

(2) that any individual selected for such position is expected to vacate the position at or before the end of the President’s term (or terms) of office.

Each individual appointed to a position described in the preceding sentence as to which the expectation described in paragraph (2) applies shall be notified as to such expectation, in writing, at the time of appointment to such position.

[§ 201. Repealed. July 16, 1951, ch. 226, § 5(a), 65 Stat. 122]

[§§ 202 to 204. Repealed. Pub. L. 109–177, title VI, § 605(c), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 255]

[§ 205. Repealed. Pub. L. 91–217, § 1(7), Mar. 19, 1970, 84 Stat. 75]

[§§ 206 to 209. Repealed. Pub. L. 109–177, title VI, § 605(c), Mar. 9, 2006, 120 Stat. 255]

§ 301. General authorization to delegate functions; publication of delegations
The President of the United States is authorized to designate and empower the head of any department or agency in the executive branch, or any official thereof who is required to be appointed by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to perform without approval, ratification, or other action by the President (1) any function which is vested in the President by law, or (2) any function which such officer is required or authorized by law to perform only with or subject to the approval, ratification, or other action of the President: Provided, That nothing contained herein shall relieve the President of his responsibility in office for the acts of any such head or other official designated by him to perform such functions. Such designation and authorization shall be in writing, shall be published in the Federal Register, shall be subject to such terms, conditions, and limitations as the President may deem advisable, and shall be revocable at any time by the President in whole or in part.

§ 302. Scope of delegation of functions
The authority conferred by this chapter shall apply to any function vested in the President by law if such law does not affirmatively prohibit delegation of the performance of such function as herein provided for, or specifically designate the officer or officers to whom it may be delegated. This chapter shall not be deemed to limit or derogate from any existing or inherent right of the President to delegate the performance of functions vested in him by law, and nothing herein shall be deemed to require express authorization in any case in which such an official would be presumed in law to have acted by authority or direction of the President.

§ 303. Definitions
As used in this chapter, the term “function” embraces any duty, power, responsibility, authority, or discretion vested in the President or other officer concerned, and the terms “perform” and “performance” may be construed to mean “exercise”.

§ 401. Definitions(a) In General.—Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, as used in this chapter:(1) Board.—The term “Board” means the Merit Systems Protection Board under chapter 12 of title 5.

(2) Covered employee.—The term “covered employee” means any employee of an employing office.

(3) Employee.—The term “employee” includes an applicant for employment and a former employee.

(4) Employing office.—The term “employing office” means—(A) each office, agency, or other component of the Executive Office of the President;

(B) the Executive Residence at the White House; and

(C) the official residence (temporary or otherwise) of the Vice President.

(b) Definitions Relating to Certain Matters.—For purposes of applying this chapter with respect to any practice or other matter—(1) to which section 411 relates, the terms “employing office” and “covered employee” shall each be considered to have the meaning given to the term by such section;

(2) to which section 412 relates, the term “covered employee” means a covered employee described in section 412(a)(2)(B);

(3) to which section 413 relates, the term “covered employee” excludes interns and volunteers, as described in section 413(a)(2); and

(4) to which section 416 relates, the term “covered employee” means a covered employee described in section 416(a)(2).

§ 402. Application of laws
The following laws shall apply, as prescribed by this chapter, to all employing offices (including employing offices within the meaning of section 411, to the extent prescribed therein):(1) The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.

(2) Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(3) The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.

(4) The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967.

(5) The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.

(6) The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.

(7) Chapter 71 (relating to Federal service labor-management relations) of title 5.

(8) The Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988.

(9) The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act.

(10) The Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

(11) Chapter 43 (relating to veterans’ employment and reemployment) of title 38.

§ 411. Rights and protections under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990(a) Discriminatory Practices Prohibited.—All personnel actions affecting covered employees shall be made free from any discrimination based on—(1) race, color, religion, sex, or national origin, within the meaning of section 703 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;

(2) age, within the meaning of section 15 of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967; or

(3) disability, within the meaning of section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and sections 102 through 104 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.

(b) Remedy.—(1) Civil rights.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a)(1) shall be—(A) such damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 706(g) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; and

(B) such compensatory damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 1977 of the Revised Statutes, or as would be appropriate if awarded under sections 1977A(a)(1), 1977A(b)(2), and, irrespective of the size of the employing office, 1977A(b)(3)(D) of the Revised Statutes.

(2) Age discrimination.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a)(2) shall be—(A) such damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 15(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967; and

(B) such liquidated damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 7(b) of such Act.

In addition, the waiver provisions of section 7(f) of such Act shall apply to covered employees.

(3) Disabilities discrimination.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a)(3) shall be—(A) such damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 505(a)(1) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 or section 107(a) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990; and

(B) such compensatory damages as would be appropriate if awarded under sections 1977A(a)(2), 1977A(a)(3), 1977A(b)(2), and, irrespective of the size of the employing office, 1977A(b)(3)(D) of the Revised Statutes.

(c) Definitions.—Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section, as used in this section:(1) Covered employee.—The term “covered employee” means any employee of a unit of the executive branch, including the Executive Office of the President, whether appointed by the President or by any other appointing authority in the executive branch, who is not otherwise entitled to bring an action under any of the statutes referred to in subsection (a), but does not include any individual—(A) whose appointment is made by and with the advice and consent of the Senate;

(B) who is appointed to an advisory committee, as defined in section 1001 of title 5; or

(C) who is a member of the uniformed services.

(2) Employing office.—The term “employing office”, with respect to a covered employee, means the office, agency, or other entity in which the covered employee is employed (or sought employment or was employed in the case of an applicant or former employee, respectively).

(d) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection (a) and paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection (b).

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the appropriate officer of an executive agency to implement the statutory provisions referred to in paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection (a) and paragraphs (1) and (3) of subsection (b)—(A) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(B) except that the President or designee may, at the discretion of the President or designee, issue regulations to implement a provision of section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 or section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that applies to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government in lieu of an analogous statutory provision referred to in paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (a) or paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (b), if the issuance of such regulations—(i) would be equally effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(ii) would promote uniformity in the application of Federal law to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government.

(e) Applicability.—Subsections (a) through (c), and section 417 (to the extent that it relates to any matter under this section), shall apply with respect to violations occurring on or after the effective date of this chapter.

(f) Effective Date.—This section shall take effect on October 1, 1997.

§ 412. Rights and protections under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993(a) Family and Medical Leave Rights and Protections Provided.—(1) In general.—The rights and protections established by sections 101 through 105 of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 shall apply to covered employees.

(2) Definitions.—For purposes of the application described in paragraph (1)—(A) the term “employer” as used in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 means any employing office; and

(B) the term “eligible employee” as used in the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 means a covered employee who has been employed in any employing office for 12 months and for at least 1,250 hours of employment during the previous 12 months.

(3) Exception.—Notwithstanding section 401(b)(2), the requirements of paragraph (2)(B) shall not apply with respect to leave under subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 102(a)(1) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)).

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be such remedy, including liquidated damages, as would be appropriate if awarded under paragraph (1) of section 107(a) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.

(c) Special Rules for Substitution of Paid Leave.—(1) Substitution of paid leave.—A covered employee may elect to substitute for any leave without pay under subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 102(a)(1) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 U.S.C. 2612(a)(1)) any paid leave which is available to such employee for that purpose.

(2) Available leave.—The paid leave that is available to a covered employee for purposes of paragraph (1) is leave of the type and in the amount available to an employee under section 6382(d)(2)(B) of title 5, United States Code, for substitution for leave without pay under subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 6382(a)(1) of such title.

(3) Consistency with title 5.—Paid leave shall be substituted under this subsection in a manner that is consistent with the requirements in section 6382(d)(2) of title 5, United States Code, except that a reference in that section to an employing agency shall be considered to be a reference to an employing office, and subparagraph (E) of that section shall not apply.

(d) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b)—(A) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section;

(B) except that the President or designee may, at the discretion of the President or designee, issue regulations to implement a provision of subchapter V of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, that applies to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government in lieu of an analogous statutory provision referred to in subsection (a) or (b), if the issuance of such regulations—(i) would be equally effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(ii) would promote uniformity in the application of Federal law to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government; and

(C) except that the President or designee shall issue regulations to implement subsection (c) in accordance with the requirements of that subsection.

(e) Effective Date.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c) (as in effect on the date of enactment of the Presidential and Executive Office Accountability Act); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 413. Rights and protections under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938(a) Fair Labor Standards.—(1) In general.—The rights and protections established by subsections (a)(1) and (d) of section 6, section 7, and section 12(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 shall apply to covered employees.

(2) Interns and volunteers.—For the purposes of this section, the term “covered employee” does not include an intern or a volunteer as defined in regulations under subsection (c).

(3) Compensatory time.—Except as provided in regulations under subsection (c)(3), covered employees may not receive compensatory time in lieu of overtime compensation.

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be such damages, including liquidated damages, as would be appropriate if awarded under section 16(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.

(c) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—Except as provided in paragraph (3), the regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section.

(3) Irregular work schedules.—The President or designee shall issue regulations for covered employees whose work schedules directly depend on the schedule of the President or the Vice President that shall be comparable to the provisions in the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 that apply to employees who have irregular work schedules.

(d) Effective Date.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 414. Rights and protections under the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988(a) Polygraph Practices Prohibited.—No employing office may require a covered employee to take a lie detector test where such a test would be prohibited if required by an employer under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 3 of the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988. In addition, the waiver provisions of section 6(d) of such Act shall apply to covered employees.

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be such damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 6(c)(1) of the Employee Polygraph Protection Act of 1988.

(c) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section.

(d) Effective Date.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 415. Rights and protections under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act(a) Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Rights.—(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), no employing office shall be closed or mass layoff ordered within the meaning of section 3 of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act until the end of a 60-day period after the employing office serves written notice of such prospective closing or layoff to representatives of covered employees or, if there are no representatives, to covered employees.

(2) Exception.—(A) In general.—In the event that a President (hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as the “previous President”) is not elected to a successive term in office as a result of the election of a new President—(i) no notice or waiting period shall be required under paragraph (1) with respect to the separation of any individual described in subparagraph (B), if such separation occurs pursuant to a closure or mass layoff ordered after the term of the new President commences; and

(ii) if any individual is separated from service, or begins a period of leave under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, before such term commences, nothing in this chapter shall require reinstatement or restoration to employment of the individual after such term commences.

(B) Description of individuals.—An individual described in this subparagraph is any covered employee serving pursuant to an appointment made during—(i) the term of office of the previous President; or

(ii) any term, earlier than the term referred to in clause (i), during which such previous President served as President or Vice President.

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be such damages as would be appropriate if awarded under paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of section 5(a) of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act.

(c) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section.

(d) Effective Date.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 416. Rights and protections relating to veterans’ employment and reemployment(a) Employment and Reemployment Rights of Members of the Uniformed Services.—(1) In general.—It shall be unlawful for an employing office to—(A) discriminate, within the meaning of subsections (a) and (b) of section 4311 of title 38, against an eligible employee;

(B) deny to an eligible employee reemployment rights within the meaning of sections 4312 and 4313 of title 38; or

(C) deny to an eligible employee benefits within the meaning of sections 4316, 4317, and 4318 of title 38.

(2) Definition.—For purposes of this section, the term “eligible employee” means a covered employee performing service in the uniformed services, within the meaning of section 4303(13) of title 38, whose service has not been terminated upon the occurrence of any of the events enumerated in section 4304 of such title.

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be such damages as would be appropriate if awarded under section 4323(d) of title 38.

(c) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b)—(A) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(B) except that the President or designee may, at the discretion of the President or designee, issue regulations to implement a provision of section 4314 or 4324 of title 38, United States Code, that applies to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government in lieu of an analogous statutory provision referred to in subsection (a) or (b), if the issuance of such regulations—(i) would be equally effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(ii) would promote uniformity in the application of Federal law to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government.

(d) Effective Date.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 417. Prohibition of intimidation or reprisal(a) In General.—It shall be unlawful for an employing office to intimidate, take reprisal against, or otherwise discriminate against, any covered employee because the covered employee has opposed any practice made unlawful by this chapter, or because the covered employee has initiated proceedings, made a charge, or testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in a hearing or other proceeding under this chapter.

(b) Remedy.—A violation of subsection (a) may be remedied by any legal remedy available to redress the practice opposed by the covered employee or other violation of law as to which the covered employee initiated proceedings, made a charge, or engaged in other conduct protected under subsection (a).

§ 421. Rights and protections under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990(a) Rights and Protections.—The rights and protections against discrimination in the provision of public services and accommodations established by sections 201, 202, and 204, and sections 302, 303, and 309, of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 shall apply, to the extent that public services, programs, or activities are provided, with respect to the White House and its appurtenant grounds and gardens, the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the New Executive Office Buildings, and any other facility to the extent that offices are provided for employees of the Executive Office of the President.

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be such remedy as would be appropriate if awarded under section 203 or 308 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as the case may be, except that, with respect to any claim of employment discrimination, the exclusive remedy shall be under section 411 of this title. A remedy under the preceding sentence shall be enforced in accordance with applicable provisions of such section 203 or 308, as the case may be.

(c) Definition.—For purposes of the application under this section of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the term “public entity” as used in such Act, means, to the extent that public services, programs, or activities are provided, the White House and its appurtenant grounds and gardens, the Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Office Building, the New Executive Office Buildings, and any other facility to the extent that offices are provided for employees of the Executive Office of the President.

(d) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the appropriate officer of an executive agency to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b)—(A) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(B) except that the President or designee may, at the discretion of the President or designee, issue regulations to implement a provision of section 1, 2, 3, or 6 of the Act entitled “An Act to insure that certain buildings financed with Federal funds are so designed and constructed as to be accessible to the physically handicapped”, approved August 12, 1968 (commonly known as the “Architectural Barriers Act of 1968”) or section 501 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 that applies to agencies of the executive branch of the Federal Government in lieu of an analogous statutory provision referred to in subsection (a) or (b), if the issuance of such regulations—(i) would be equally effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(ii) would promote uniformity in the application of Federal law to agencies of the executive branch of the Federal Government.

(e) Effective Date.—Subsections (a), (b), and (c) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (d); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 425. Rights and protections under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970; procedures for remedy of violations(a) Occupational Safety and Health Protections.—(1) In general.—Each employing office and each covered employee shall comply with the provisions of section 5 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.

(2) Definitions.—For purposes of the application under this section of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970—(A) the term “employer” as used in such Act means an employing office; and

(B) the term “employee” as used in such Act means a covered employee.

(b) Remedy.—The remedy for a violation of subsection (a) shall be an order to correct the violation, including such order as would be appropriate if issued under section 13(a) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.

(c) Procedures.—(1) Requests for inspections.—Upon written request of any employing office or covered employee, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority to inspect and investigate places of employment under the jurisdiction of employing offices in accordance with subsections (a), (d), (e), and (f) of section 8 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.

(2) Citations, notices, and notifications.—The Secretary of Labor shall have the authority, in accordance with sections 9 and 10 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, to issue—(A) a citation or notice to any employing office responsible for correcting a violation of subsection (a); or

(B) a notification to any employing office that the Secretary of Labor believes has failed to correct a violation for which a citation has been issued within the period permitted for its correction.

(3) Hearings and review.—If after issuing a citation or notification, the Secretary of Labor determines that a violation has not been corrected—(A) the citation and notification shall be deemed a final order (within the meaning of section 10(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970) if the employer fails to notify the Secretary of Labor within 15 days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays) after receipt of the notice that the employer intends to contest the citation or notification; or

(B) opportunity for a hearing before the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission shall be afforded in accordance with section 10(c) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, if the employer gives timely notice to the Secretary that he intends to contest the citation or notification.

(4) Variance procedures.—An employing office may request from the Secretary of Labor an order granting a variance from a standard made applicable by this section, in accordance with sections 6(b)(6) and 6(d) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970.

(5) Judicial review.—Any person or employing office aggrieved by a final decision of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission under paragraph (3) or the Secretary of Labor under paragraph (4) may file a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit under section 1296 of title 28.

(6) Compliance date.—If new appropriated funds are necessary to correct a violation of subsection (a) for which a citation is issued, or to comply with an order requiring correction of such a violation, correction or compliance shall take place as soon as possible, but not later than the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the citation is issued or the order requiring correction becomes final and not subject to further review.

(d) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Labor to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsections (a) and (b)—(A) except to the extent that the President or designee may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(B) except that the President or designee may, at the discretion of the President or designee, issue regulations to implement a provision of section 19 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 that applies to agencies or employees of the executive branch of the Federal Government in lieu of an analogous statutory provision referred to in subsection (a) or (b), if the issuance of such regulations—(i) would be equally effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(ii) would promote uniformity in the application of Federal law to employees in the executive branch of the Federal Government.

(3) Employing office responsible for correction.—The regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall include a method of identifying, for purposes of this section and for different categories of violations of subsection (a), the employing office responsible for correction of a particular violation.

(e) Effective Date.—Subsections (a) through (c) shall take effect on the earlier of—(1) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (d); or

(2) October 1, 1998.

§ 431. Application of chapter 71 of title 5, relating to Federal service labor-management relations; procedures for remedy of violations(a) Labor-Management Rights.—Subject to subsection (d), chapter 71 of title 5 shall apply to employing offices and to covered employees and representatives of those employees, except that covered employees shall not have a right to reinstatement pursuant to section 7118(a)(7)(C) or 7123 of title 5.

(b) Definition.—For purposes of the application under this section of chapter 71 of title 5, the term “agency” as used in such chapter means an employing office.

(c) Regulations To Implement Section.—(1) In general.—The Federal Labor Relations Authority shall issue regulations to implement this section.

(2) Agency regulations.—Except as provided in subsection (d), the regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall be the same as substantive regulations promulgated by the Authority to implement the statutory provisions referred to in subsection (a), except—(A) to the extent the Authority may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; or

(B) as the Authority may determine that a modification of such regulations is necessary to avoid a conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest.

(d) Specific Regulations Regarding Applications to Certain Employing Offices.—(1) Regulations required.—The Authority shall issue regulations on the manner and the extent to which the requirements and exemptions of chapter 71 of title 5 should apply to covered employees who are employed in the offices listed in paragraph (2). The regulations shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be consistent with the provisions and purposes of chapter 71 of title 5 and of this chapter, and shall be the same as the substantive regulations issued by the Authority under such chapter, except—(A) to the extent the Authority may determine, for good cause shown and stated together with the regulation, that a modification of such regulations would be more effective for the implementation of the rights and protections under this section; and

(B) that the Authority shall exclude from coverage under this section any covered employees who are employed in offices listed in paragraph (2) if the Authority determines that such exclusion is required because of—(i) a conflict of interest or appearance of a conflict of interest; or

(ii) the President’s or Vice President’s constitutional responsibilities.

(2) Offices referred to.—The offices referred to in paragraph (1) include—(A) the White House Office;

(B) the Executive Residence at the White House;

(C) the Office of the Vice President;

(D) the Office of Policy Development;

(E) the Council of Economic Advisers;

(F) the National Security Council;

(G) the Office of Management and Budget; and

(H) the Office of National Drug Control Policy.

(e) Effective Date.—(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the earlier of—(A) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (c); or

(B) October 1, 1998.

(2) Certain employing offices.—Subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect, with respect to employing offices, and employees of employing offices, referred to in subsection (d)(2), on the earlier of—(A) the effective date of regulations issued under subsection (d); or

(B) October 1, 1998.

§ 435. Generally applicable remedies and limitations(a) Attorney’s Fees.—If a covered employee, with respect to any claim under this chapter, or a qualified person with a disability, with respect to any claim under section 421, is a prevailing party in any proceeding under section 453(1), the administrative agency may award attorney’s fees, expert fees, and any other costs as would be appropriate if awarded under section 706(k) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(b) Interest.—In any proceeding under section 453(1), the same interest to compensate for delay in payment shall be made available as would be appropriate if awarded under section 717(d) of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(c) Civil Penalties and Punitive Damages.—Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no civil penalty or punitive damages may be awarded with respect to any claim under this chapter.

(d) Exclusive Procedure.—(1) In general.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), no person may commence an administrative or judicial proceeding to seek a remedy for the rights and protections afforded by this chapter except as provided in this chapter and in sections 1296 and 1346(g) and chapter 179 of title 28.

(2) Veterans.—A covered employee under section 416 may also utilize any provisions of chapter 43 of title 38 that are applicable to that employee.

(e) Scope of Remedy.—Only a covered employee who has undertaken and completed the procedures described in section 452 may be granted a remedy under part A of this subchapter.

(f) Construction.—(1) Definitions and exemptions.—Except where inconsistent with definitions and exemptions provided in this chapter, the definitions and exemptions in the laws made applicable by this chapter shall apply under this chapter.

(2) Size limitations.—Notwithstanding paragraph (1), provisions in the laws made applicable under this chapter (other than paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2(a) of the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act) determining coverage based on size, whether expressed in terms of numbers of employees, amount of business transacted, or other measure, shall not apply in determining coverage under this chapter.

(g) Political Affiliation.—It shall not be a violation of any provision of this chapter to consider, or make any employment decision based on, the party affiliation, or political compatibility with the employing office, of an employee who is a covered employee.

§ 451. Procedure for consideration of alleged violations
The procedure for consideration of alleged violations of part A of subchapter II consists of—(1) counseling and mediation as provided in section 452; and

(2) election, as provided in section 453, of either—(A) an administrative proceeding as provided in section 453(1) and judicial review as provided in section 1296 of title 28; or

(B) a civil action in a district court of the United States as provided in section 1346(g) of title 28.

§ 452. Counseling and mediation(a) In General.—The President, or the designee of the President, shall by regulation establish procedures substantially similar to those under sections 402 and 403 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 for the counseling and mediation of alleged violations of a law made applicable under part A of subchapter II.

(b) Exhaustion Requirement.—A covered employee who has not exhausted counseling and mediation under subsection (a) shall be ineligible to make any election under section 453 or otherwise pursue any further form of relief under this subchapter.

§ 453. Election of proceeding
Not later than 90 days after a covered employee receives notice of the end of the period of mediation, but no sooner than 30 days after receipt of such notification, such covered employee may either—(1) file a complaint with the appropriate agency, as determined under section 454; or

(2) file a civil action under section 1346(g) of title 28.

§ 454. Appropriate agencies(a) In General.—Except as provided in subsection (b), the appropriate agency under this section with respect to an alleged violation of part A of subchapter II shall be the Board. The complaint in an action involving such an alleged violation shall be processed under the procedures specified by the President, or the designee of the President, in such regulations as the President or designee may issue.

(b) Exceptions.—(1) Discrimination.—For purposes of any action arising under section 411 (or any action alleging intimidation, reprisal, or discrimination under section 417 relating to any practice made unlawful under section 411), the appropriate agency shall be the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the complaint in any such action shall be processed under the same administrative procedures as any such complaint filed by any employee in the executive branch of the Federal Government (other than a covered employee).

(2) Mixed cases.—In the case of any covered employee (within the meaning of section 411) who has been affected by an action which an employee of an executive agency may appeal to the Board and who alleges that a basis for the action was discrimination prohibited by section 411 (or any action alleging intimidation, reprisal, or discrimination under section 417 relating to any practice made unlawful under section 411), the initial appropriate agency shall be the Board, and such matter shall thereafter be processed in accordance with section 7702(a)–(d) (disregarding paragraph (2) of such subsection (a)) and (f) of title 5.

(3) Judicial review.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law (including any provision of law referenced in paragraph (1) or (2)), judicial review of any administrative decision under this subsection shall be by appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit under section 1296 of title 28.

§ 455. Effect of failure to issue regulations
In any proceeding under section 453(1), if the President, or the designee of the President, has not issued a regulation on a matter for which this chapter requires a regulation to be issued, the administrative agency shall apply, to the extent necessary and appropriate, the most relevant substantive executive agency regulation promulgated to implement the statutory provision at issue in the proceeding.

§ 456. Confidentiality(a) Counseling.—All counseling under section 452 shall be strictly confidential, except that, with the consent of the covered employee, the employing office may be notified.

(b) Mediation.—All mediation under section 452 shall be strictly confidential.

§ 471. Effective date(a) In General.—Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, this chapter shall take effect on October 1, 1997.

(b) Regulations.—Sections 411(d), 412(c), 413(c), 414(c), 415(c), 416(c), 421(d), 425(d), 431(c), 431(d), 452(a), and 454(a) shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.1

